Hey everyone. Welcome back to Movie
Recap. Today I'm gonna show you a
1980 psychological horror
film called, The Shining.
Former teacher and recovering alcoholic Jack
Torrance interviews for a caretaker job at the
Overlook Hotel in an effort to rebuild his
life after his volatile temper lost him his
teaching position. The hotel manager, Mr.
Stuart Ullman, warns Jack that he and his
family will be snowbound through most of the
winter and of the potential risk for cabin fever.
He drives the point home by recounting a
season when the caretaker, Charles Grady,
went crazy and brutally killed his wife,
his two girls (Lisa Burns and Louise Burns),
and finally himself. Given his own desperation
and the opportunity to pursue his true passion,
writing, Jack acknowledges the
warning, but accepts the job.
Meanwhile, Jack's son Danny has a seizure while
talking to his imaginary friend Tony about the
Overlook Hotel. He has a vision of blood
splashing out of an elevator in the hotel,
an image which is revisited
several times throughout the film.
Upon Danny's arrival at the hotel, head chef Dick
Hallorann recognizes that Danny is telepathic,
and speaks to him mentally
to offer him some ice cream.
He explains that he and his
grandmother both had the gift;
she referred to this communication as "shining."
He also counsels Danny about the hotel, hinting
that something terrible had happened there and
left a trace, "as if someone burned toast," which
only people who can "shine" will perceive. Danny
questions Dick about what went on in the hotel,
and about Room 237 in particular as Danny can
sense that Dick is especially afraid of that
room. Though he strives to assure Danny that
the images he sees in the hotel are just "like
pictures in a book" and can't hurt him, Dick
sternly warns Danny to stay out of that room.
Jack's mental health deteriorates rapidly
once the family is alone in the hotel.
He has writer's block, sleeps too little,
and is irritable. Danny has visions of
the two murdered Grady girls, but tells no
one. He continues to wonder about Room 237.
While the weather is still relatively warm,
Jack's wife Wendy and Danny walk through a
maze of tall hedges, making a game out of it,
stopping at dead ends and fixing their mistakes.
One day, a ball rolls toward Danny as he plays
with his toys. It appears to have come from the
open door of Room 237, which Danny enters. At that
moment, Wendy comes running from the basement at
the sound of Jack's screams in the lounge. He
tells her that he had a nightmare in which he
used an axe to chop Danny and her to pieces. As
a disconcerted Wendy promises that "Everything's
gonna be okay," Danny appear s at the other end
of the room, looking disoriented and sucking his
thumb. His sweater is ripped and there are bruises
on his neck. He does not answer when Wendy asks
what happened. She angrily accuses Jack of hurting
Danny and takes the child back to their suite.
Jack is furious about the accusation. He
storms around the hotel, making his way to
the Gold Ballroom. Sinking defeatedly onto a
stool at an empty bar, his head in his hands,
Jack declares that he would sell his soul for one
drink. When he looks up he discovers a bartender,
who serves him a drink. Jack is nonplussed by
the sudden appearance of the bartender and even
addresses him by his name, Lloyd. In the course
of telling his troubles to Lloyd, Jack reveals
that he unintentionally dislocated Danny's
shoulder, the same accident Wendy mentioned
to Danny's pediatrician earlier. Notably, Jack
states that the injury happened three years ago,
while in explaining the same story to the
pediatrician, Wendy said that Jack, who vowed to
quit drinking immediately following the accident,
has currently been sober for only five months.
A frantic Wendy enters, finding
Jack seemingly alone at the bar;
she pleads with him to investigate Danny's
claim that "a crazy woman" attacked him in
the bathtub of Room 237. Jack, who acts a bit
tipsy, grudgingly agrees to go have a look.
As Jack approaches the door to Room 237, Danny
appears to be having a seizure in his own room.
Dick, back at his home in Florida,
stares wide-eyed as he picks up
on a signal Danny is sending.
Jack cautiously enters Room 237. The bedroom is
empty and he proceeds to the bathroom. He watches
lustfully as a young, beautiful, naked woman
pulls back the shower curtain and steps slowly
out of the bathtub. The two approach each other
and embrace in a passionate kiss. Jack catches a
glimpse of their reflection in the mirror and
sees the woman is actually a rotting corpse.
He recoils in horror, the young lady standing
before him has transformed into an elderly woman,
a walking corpse with rotten, sagging skin.
She cackles madly while reaching for him
with outstretched arms. Stunned, Jack staggers
out of the room, locking the door after him.
When he reports back to Wendy, Jack denies
anything amiss in Room 237. Wendy suggests
they take Danny to a doctor. Jack becomes irate,
lecturing Wendy on her thoughtlessness and blaming
her for everything that's gone wrong in his life.
Insisting that they can't leave the hotel because
of his obligation to his employers, he storms out,
returning to the Gold Room, which is now the scene
of an extravagant party with guests dressed in
1920's fashion. Lloyd serves him a drink and Jack
strolls through the crowd. He doesn't get far when
a butler carrying a tray runs into him, spilling
advocaat on his jacket. The butler convinces
Jack to come into the bathroom to clean up.
The butler introduces himself as Delbert Grady.
Jack remembers the story Mr. Ullman told him
about a former caretaker named Grady murdering his
family and confronts Grady with the information.
Grady denies that anything of the sort
took place and furthermore insists that
Jack has "always been the caretaker." Jack is
confused, but seems to accept Grady's story.
Grady goes on to tell Jack that Danny
has "a great talent" and is using it to
bring an "outside party" into the situation,
referring to Dick Halloran with a racial slur.
Grady advises Jack on how to "correct" Danny,
and how to deal with Wendy if she interferes.
Back in Florida, Dick has had no luck
contacting the people at the Overlook Hotel.
Worried about Danny, he books
the next flight to Colorado.
At the Overlook, Wendy arms herself
with a baseball bat and looks for Jack,
intent on leaving the hotel with Danny
whether or not Jack agrees to come.
Entering the lounge, she spots Jack's manuscript
left unattended next to the typewriter.
She reads what Jack has been writing: hundreds
of pages of repetitions of a single sentence:
"All work and no play makes Jack a dull
boy." She realizes that Jack has gone mad.
Jack approaches from behind and asks
sarcastically, "How do you like it?"
Wendy shrieks with alarm and wheels around to face
him. A confrontation ensues as Jack demands to
know her intentions regarding leaving the hotel
with Danny, while Wendy retreats, brandishing
the bat. She screams at Jack not to hurt her,
and he swears that he will not; instead, he
intends to kill her. Wendy hits Jack on the head
with the bat at the top of a flight of stairs,
causing him to lose his balance and tumble down
the staircase, injuring his ankle in the process.
Wendy drags Jack's limp body to the pantry
and locks him inside, just as he regains
consciousness. Jack tells her he has sabotaged
the radio, as well as the snow cat, stranding
them all there. She goes outside to check on
the snow cat, and confirms what he told her.
A few hours later, Jack is roused from a
nap by the sound of Delbert Grady's voice.
Grady expresses disappointment and a lack
of confidence in Jack, but Jack assures
him he can get the job done if given one more
chance. The pantry door then suddenly unlocks.
Wendy has fallen asleep in her room. Danny is
in a trance, carrying a knife and muttering
"redrum" repeatedly. He takes Wendy's lipstick
and writes "REDRUM" on the bathroom door.
He begins shouting "REDRUM," which
wakes Wendy. She clutches him to her,
then sees the reflection of the bathroom
door in the mirror. Reversed, it reads:
"MURDER." At that instant, banging sounds
start coming from the door to the hallway.
The sound is Jack swinging an axe at the locked
door. Wendy grabs Danny and locks them in the
bathroom. She opens a tiny, snow banked window
and pushes Danny out; he slides safely to the
ground. She tries to get out the same window,
but cannot fit. She tells Danny to run and hide.
Meanwhile, Jack has chopped his way
through the front door and calls out
"Wendy, I'm home!" Jack then knocks
politely on the bathroom door.
Wendy holds the knife and tries to steady
herself as Jack begins chopping into the door.
After chopping away one of the panels,
he sticks his head through and screams.
Jack sticks his hand through the door to turn
the lock. Wendy slashes at him with a knife,
cutting Jack's hand and sending him recoiling
in pain. Jack continues to hack at the door with
the axe until they both hear the low rumble of
an approaching snow cat engine. He stalks out.
The snow cat driver is Dick. Inside the
hotel, he calls out, but gets no reply. Jack,
hiding behind a pillar, leaps out
and swings the axe into Dick's chest,
killing him. Danny, hiding in a kitchen cabinet,
screams, revealing his location. He clambers
out of the steel cabinet and runs outside.
Meanwhile, Wendy has ventured from the bathroom
and begun to search for Danny. The hotel has
sprung to life and now even Wendy encounters its
ghosts, sights that shock and horrify her. At the
same time, axe-wielding Jack turns on the outdoor
lights and follows Danny into the hedge maze.
Danny realizes he is leaving a trail of
footprints in the snow for Jack to follow.
He carefully retraces his steps, walking
backwards in the same prints he'd just
created in the opposite direction, then covers
the rest of his tracks and hides behind a hedge.
When Jack arrives, he sees that the trail of
footprints ends abruptly, giving him no clue
as to which direction Danny took. He chooses
a path and lurches deeper into the maze.
Danny comes out of his hiding spot and follows
his own footprints back to the maze's entrance.
Wendy makes her way out of the hotel
just as Danny emerges from the maze.
Relieved, she flings down the knife and embraces
him. Jack bellows his frustration from within the
maze. Danny and Wendy waste no time escaping in
the snow cat that Dick used to get to the hotel.
Jack, hopelessly lost in
the maze, freezes to death.
Right before the end credits, the camera slowly
zooms in on a wall in the hotel full of old
photographs that chronicle the hotel's
history. An old recording of "Midnight,
the Stars and You" echoes in the empty hallway.
In the center of one picture is a young Jack.
The caption reads, "Overlook
Hotel, July 4th Ball, 1921."
Thanks for watching. See
you in another Movie Recap.
Please LIKE and SUBSCRIBE, and click the bell
icon to get new video update.
Have a nice day.